#summary A description of the distributed arrays and the relationship between dndviews and dndarrays.

[http://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/reference/c-api.types-and-structures.html#PyArrayObject PyArrayObject] is the fundamental data structure in NumPy. It represents either an array-base or an array-view. They both contain all meta-data related to an array (size, data type, data layout etc) but whereas the array-base has direct access to the content of the array, the array-view only has a reference to an array-base.
Instead of having one data structure representing both array-bases and array-views, DistNumPy has two separate data structures:

  * Array-base is the base of an array and has direct access to the content of the array in main memory.  An array-base is created with all related meta-data when the user allocates a new distributed array but the user will never access the array directly through the array-base. The array-base always describes the whole array and its meta-data like size, data type will never change.
  * Array-view is a view of one array-base. It can be “viewing” the whole array or only a sub-part of the array. It contains its own meta-data that describe which part of the array-base is visible and it can even add non-existing 1-length dimensions to the array-base. The array-view is manipulated directly by the user and from the users perspective the array-view is the array.


<table border="0" width="1">
<tr>
  <td>http://sites.google.com/site/distnumpy/wikipics/views.png</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>*Figure 1:* The relation hierarchy between the three array data structures. The main memory is in the bottom, array-bases is in the middle and array-view is in the top.</td>
</tr>
</table>